
ROCPACK
=======

Rocpack is a particle packing code developed at University of Illinois to
simulate the microstructure of solid rocket propellants. Rocpack packs particles
based on two different packing algorithms. For spheres, Rocpack uses the
consolidated Lubachevsky–Stillinger packing algorithm. For polyhedra, Rocpack
uses a new algorithm developed specifically for the task. This new algorithm is
a hybrid between the Lubachevsky–Stillinger and Adaptive Shrinking Cell packing
algorithms. In both algorithms, infinitesimal particles are distributed randomly
within a given container and are then allowed to grow until the desired packing
fraction is reached or until the packing is jammed. When two particles are about
to collide, measures are taken to prevent any intersections. Rocpack can produce
packs of polydisperse spheres and convex polyhedra. Polyhedra are defined in
external files. Rocpack comes with many files for common shapes, including all
the platonic and archimedean solids, as well as a few extra shapes for pyramids,
prisms, etc. Rocpack can create particles with both fixed size as well as with
continuous size distributions. In the current version of Rocpack, it is possible
to pack spheres inside a box (with solid or periodic walls), a cylinder, an
annulus, a sphere, or a torus. Polyhedra can be packed only inside a periodic
box for the moment, but additional boundary types will be implemented in the
future. For more details about the packing algorithm used in Rocpack, please
take a look at the file rocpack.pdf in the documentation directory that has been
distributed with the source code. For more details on how to run Rocpack, please
check the program manual also distributed in the documentation directory.

For installation instructions, please see the INSTALL file, as the documentation
is lagging behind after the conversion of the build system to use GNU autotools.

